---
layout: post
title: Year in Review - 2014
date: 2014-12-20
---

So long 2014. Here's what I was up to over the past 12 months:

### Major accomplishments

* Accepted a job as a software engineer with [Karat](https://karat.io).
* Became a licensed private pilot.
* Relocated from the East Coast to the Pacfic Northwest.

### Projects completed

* [WebRTC-example](https://github.com/shanet/WebRTC-Example)
* [Moved blog to Jekyll](https://github.com/shanet/shanet.github.io)
* [https://karat.io - Karat's public website](https://github.com/CoTrain/karat-public)
* A whole bunch of other projects for Karat that aren't public (yet!)

Overall, I've spent less personal time on software projects this year in exchange for exploring non-computer related interests. It's a trend I expect will continue throughout 2015.

### Languages learned

* Ruby (for Rails)
* x86 (just enough to write a blog post on the topic)

My pace of learning languages slowed this year since I'm now at least familiar with most major languages. Learning a new language out of necessity is a rarity.

<!--more-->

### Skills learned

* Startup mentality
  * Prioritization of projects
  * Taking more of a "Jack of all trades, master of none" role
  * Being concerned with marketing and branding
  * Thinking in a much more customer oriented manner than I was in school and side projects
* Rails
* Jekyll
* Managing an infrastructure on AWS
* How to fly an airplane
* Static line skydiving

### Books read

* A Brief History of Time
* The Stranger
* The Doors of Perception
* What the Dormouse Said: How the Sixties Counterculture Shaped the Personal Computer Industry
* The Electric Kool-Aid Acid Test
* The Killing Zone: How and Why Pilots Die
* How to Win Friends and Influence People

### Blog posts written

* [Writing a Self-mutating x86_64 C Program]({% post_url 2013-12-29-writing-a-self-mutating-x86_64-c-program %})
* [Drupal and The Holy Grail of Workflows]({% post_url 2014-04-02-drupal-and-the-holy-grail-of-workflows %})
* [Adding a Syscall to Linux 3.14]({% post_url 2014-04-09-adding-a-syscall-to-linux-3-14 %})
* [A Dead Simple WebRTC Example]({% post_url 2014-09-22-a-dead-simple-webrtc-example %})
* [Translating Virtual Addresses to Physical Addresses in User Space]({% post_url 2014-12-27-translating-virtual-addresses-to-physcial-addresses-in-user-space %})

### Places visited

* Portland, OR
* Walla Walla, WA
* Friday Harbor, WA
* Glacier National Park
* Devil's Tower
* Mt. Rushmore
* Most of I-90 between Pennsylvania and Washington
* The backroads of Montana
* Cape May, NJ

### Airports landed at

* KUNV - University Park
* KRVL - Mifflin County
* KAOO - Altoona-Blair County
* KLHV - Lock Haven
* KDUJ - DuBois Regional
* P34 - Mifflintown
* N74 - Penns Cave
* KWWD - Cape May County
* KACY - Atlantic City International
* KJST - Johnstown-Cambria County
* KAXQ - Clarion County
* KSEG - Penn Valley
* KPAE - Paine Field
* W10 - Whidbey Air Park
* KFHR - Friday Harbor
* S43 - Harvey Field
* KBFI - Boeing Field
* KHIO - Hillsboro Airport
* 0S9 - Jefferson County

### Best experiences

* Driving across the country
* Visting Glacier National Park
* Flying around Mt. Baker and the Cascades
* Driving around Mt. Rainer in the summer
* Static line skydiving

### Recipes learned

* Lemon chicken and various other marinades
* Chicken parmesean
* Quesadillas
* I use alfredo sauce much more often now

### Looking back on 2014

These were my goals for 2014 from my [year in review - 2013]({% post_url 2013-12-27-year-in-review-2013 %}) post. Here's how I did:

* <s>Find a permanent job</s>
* <s>Become a licensed private pilot</s>
* Finish <a href="https://github.com/shanet/WithAChanceOf">With a Chance Of</a>.
  * One of reasons for starting this project was to do a meaningful web project. Web development is a large part of my current job. Thus, the motivation to finish this project is very low now. Maybe next year.
* Go through <a href="https://github.com/SamyPesse/How-to-Make-a-Computer-Operating-System">How To Make A Computer Operating System</a>.
  * Maybe this year? :)
* Read The Linux Programming Interface.
  * Put off until I finish Understanding the Linux Kernel.
* Finish Understanding the Linux Kernel.
  * Still working on it. In all fairness, it's a very thick book.
* Learn more about distributed systems <s>and Linux (kernel)</s>.
  * I have learned more about the kernel, but not much more about distributed systems. I'll call this one half complete.
* Finish Udcacity AI course and Coursera cryptography course.
  * No excuses here. I dropped the ball on this.

### Looking towards 2015

* Become a licensed amatuer radio operator (already working towards this one)
* Become a licensed scuba diver
* Take aerobatic lessons
* Get a glider rating
* Get an instrument rating (maybe, this is dependent on being able to afford it or not; flying is expensive!)
* Go skiing in the backcountry
* Explore more airports and ski resorts in the PNW
